while Israel's government has not yet
confirmed its post-war plans for Gaza
the farri settler movement has been
clear about what it wants Israeli Ultra
nationalists are calling for the
building of settlements in the Gaza
Strip once the war is over with Hamas
the militant islamist group that
launched the terror attacks on Israel on
October 7th the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has ruled out a resettlement
but several members of his government
have joined the calls to begin
building air strikes and operations on
the ground as Israel tries to root out
Hamas from Gaza death and destruction
throughout the
strip but here at a conference in
Jerusalem farri Israeli settler
organizations are making plans for the
day after Daniela Vice is a settler and
activist the aim of this assembly is to
bring together the people who claim that
we have to return to the Gaza Strip and
establish Jewish communities right away
in the gush katif area in the city of
Gaza itself and all over the street the
Arabs will not stay in Gaza not the
Hamas not the supporters of Hamas and
those who do not support Hamas don't
want to stay
anyway those kinds of plans are not
government policy prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has said Israel does
not intend to Esta Lish a permanent
civilian presence in Gaza
again but a number of his ministers were
at the conference calling for Israeli
settlements in Gaza including the
national security
minister today everyone understands that
Retreat brings about war and if we don't
want another October 7th we need to
return home to Gaza and control the
territory to encourage voluntary
immigration of
Palestinians Mustafa bouti of the
Palestinian national initiative told the
AL jazer news outlet that this is not a
joke these are the people who are making
the policy in Israel and they were
calling for the complete ethnic
cleansing of the people of
Gaza in 2005 Israel evacuated its
settlements in Gaza the largest of which
was called gush katif after a 38-year
occupation the evacuation was framed as
a move to improve security but Hamas
started firing Rockets into Israel soon
afterwards
building new settlements in Gaza doesn't
have majority Israeli support a recent
poll found 44% in favor but Netanyahu
has not shut down his own Minister's
calls for a return he's just said the
plans are not
realistic those calls have been
condemned by Israel's allies Germany and
the us some of this rhetoric in the
language that that was uh uh attributed
to some of these uh ministers at this
event uh irresponsible uh Reckless
incendiary I'd go so far as to say uh
and certainly isn't doesn't comport with
our strong policy statement what we have
made clear that there can be no
reduction in Gaza territory what is it
the fact that resettling Gaza is being
discussed at all has raised fears that
the issue has come out of the fringes
and will gain legitimacy meanwhile
Daniela Vice told DW she might not wait
for permission she wants to lead a group
of settlers to start building in
Gaza
a Ibrahim uh filed this report he she
joins us from Jerusalem now Israel's
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
said publicly that Israel is not
planning for a permanent presence in
Gaza but the attendance of his ministers
at that meeting seems to suggest at
least some support of the discussion is
he playing both sides
there what the Prime Minister has also
not done is start formal uh planning or
formal conversations within his
government about plans for the day after
and analysts have been telling me that's
because there's a fear that once these
conversations really start there will be
a a huge break in his uh cabinet because
as we've seen in that report there seems
to be a lot of differences there what
the settler uh leaders of the settler
movement have uh told me and told other
media Outlets as well is that
netanyahu's statements because he said
many things about Gaza to them leave a
gap of interpretation so while he has
said that he thinks that settlements are
not uh realistic or a return of
settlements in Gaza are not realistic
he's also said on multiple occasions
that Israel uh needs to maintain
security control of the strip and at
times he has said that that uh that that
the maintenance of that security needs
to be uh indefinite he has also uh
rejected calls for a two-state solution
uh and the return of the Palestinian
author authority to the G Gaza Strip as
a governing body and what that says to S
settlement leaders and uh members uh
right-wing members of his cabinet is
that there's a room for interpretation
that's how they see it and that's why
they are organizing at the scale that we
just saw in that report and for me
what's been astonishing covering the
story is um how um the you know the the
movement for a call of resettlement has
has evolved just in the past couple of
weeks it it was always there since the
disengagement in 2005 since since Israel
pulled out but how far it's made it into
um into the mainstream political
Spectrum with um ministers even outside
even within um uh the prime minister's
party has been astonishing in November
there was a small conference in the
south of Israel with a couple of Fringe
figures from the knesset uh there have
been more meetings since and then uh
from November till uh this uh this
weekend where we've seen that huge
conference we've seen ministers from the
leud at least more than 10 government
ministers attend and endorse these plans
and that's very alarming the pace uh of
this movement and how it has sort of
imposed itself on public discourse and
the Prime Minister has left a huge
vacuum as to what his exact plans are
now uh legality and government support
aside is there a chance that settlers
could also take matters into their own
hands
I think we have to look out at how the
settle the settle the settlers have been
acting in the occupied West Bank um to
get a little bit of an insight into how
they see all of this now the West Bank
um is a occupied territory it's been
occupied by Israel um since 1967 Israel
consecutive Israeli governments but
especially this government have
supported the building of settlements uh
Jewish settlements there which are
considered uh illegal under
international law but are not illegal
under Israeli law Daniela Vice and sort
of that group that we've seen in that
report they have been also involved in
establishing what are called outposts
now these are settlements that are even
illegal under Israeli law not just
international law and they have been
successful in getting these outposts
recognized and legalized by the
government a number of these outposts
legalized and recognized by the
government after the fact and so again
going back to what I was saying earlier
what these settlers see they see a gap
right they see a a possibility if the
prime minister is saying things like we
will maintain security control if he's
not making def definitive plans that
they maybe will get maybe will get to do
the same in the Gaza Strip another
important thing to note is that um
Israel pulled out in two out of Gaza in
2005 under what is called the
disengagement law the disengagement law
included a pull out of Gaza but also a
pull out of uh some settlement
communities in the northern West Bank
and what some lawmakers have been
successful at doing earlier this year
earlier last year pardon in March 2003
is repeal part of the disengagement law
that pertains to the West Bank so these
these four or five settlements in the
north of the West Bank um they've
managed to get the disengagement law
pertaining to them already repealed and
then have have returned to them and so
they're also fears that now the legal
Avenue CH the chipping away of the
disengagement law has already started
and that they continue to pursue
repealing the disengagement law as it
pertains to the Gaza Strip the
correspondent a Ibrahim in Jerusalem
there thank you very much
a